Roadmap  (1) Your Instructor  My name is Craig Beam. I was born and grew up in Niagara Falls, Ontario, and obtained my Ph.D. in Philosophy from the University of Waterloo in 1999, the last class of the millennium. I've been at Laurier since 2003, teaching over 100 classes, and designed this course in 2008. Other courses I've taught include PP203 VA Social and Political Philosophy, PP230 VA Philosophy of War and Peace, PP207 Ethical Theories, PP240J Chinese Philosophy, PP263 Modern European Philosophy II (19th Century), PP264 20th Century Philosophy, and PP380N Virtue Ethics. My email is cbeam@wlu.ca  (2) Course Description  PP247 - Business Ethics   (from the Undergraduate Academic Calendar)  An examination of the ethical aspects of central features of business activity such as property rights, contracts, the profit motive, advertising and regulated trade. Reference will be made to moral concepts such as justice, welfare and responsibility, in relation to such current issues as preferential hiring, deceptive advertising, environmental destruction and consumer protection.  PP247 VA - Business Ethics   (this particular course taught by Beam)  This is a practical ethics course which is open to students from all disciplines. It aims to develop a basic understanding of ethical theory and the ability to think critically about the moral issues of business and professional life. In the first half, we will learn about several major ethical theories and discuss issues of justice, social responsibility, and professional ethics. In the second half, we will examine various topics in business ethics such as lying and
bluffing, advertising, employee rights, affirmative action, sexual harassment, international business and environmental issues.  Sections   - This course was recently divided into VA1, VA2, and VA3 for registration and admin purposes. The Discussion Board is divided differently into 4 groups to keep the number of posts on each more manageable. However, for instructional and practical proposes, PP247 is ONE CLASS, with one instructor, and the same content, requirements, and options for all.  Course Materials   - Info about Course Readings and other materials and resources (including Films and YouTube links) can be found by clicking other sections in Course Information. There are detailed Course Notes. Readings are linked articles and chapters that are   no cost .  (3) Anticipated Learning Objectives - Core Competencies in Knowledge, Skills, and Values  After completing this course you will be able to:  Knowledge  ●   Explain the philosophical approach to ethics.  ●   Describe the major ethical theories (Utilitarianism, Kantian Deontology, Virtue Ethics).  ●   Debate right-wing vs. left-wing views of justice, and capitalism vs. socialism.  ●   Explain stockholder (Friedmanite) vs. stakeholder views of social responsibility.  ●   Describe the nature of a profession, and the special moral challenges facing professionals.  ●   Explain ethical issues relating to lying, bluffing, and pricing.  ●   Explain ethical issues relating to advertising.  ●   Describe employee rights and their evolution, including work and family issues.  ●   Debate issues of affirmative action, the gender pay gap, and sexual harassment.  ●   Explain the impact of cultural relativism on international business.
●   Describe environment issues relating to business.  ●   Analyze some classic business ethics cases.  Skills  ●   Analyze critically the moral issues of business and professional life.  ●   Develop an argument, to cogently defend one's position against alternatives.  ●   Intelligently apply ethical theories to real-life situations.  ●   Identify relevant moral issues in cases, analyze them, and propose a solution.  Values  ●   Clarify and articulate one's own values.  ●   List challenging moral issues in business, about which reasonable arguments can be made for multiple points of view.  ●   Prepare oneself to meet the special moral challenges of corporate life (especially resisting the temptation to abdicate responsibility and obey the boss or maximize profit).  ●   Develop philosophical habits of mind and an interest in moral issues as they relate to one's field of study.  (4) Course Outline  The course consists of 12 Units, one for each week of the term. The introduction and conclusion have no accompanying readings and are shorter than the others.  Unit 1 - Week 1 - Introduction  Reading - Beam  Unit 2 - Week 2 - Ethics: Foundations & Challenges  Reading - Beauchamp & Bowie (p.1-19)  Unit 3 - Week 3 - Ethics: Utilitarian & Kantian Theories  Readings - Beauchamp & Bowie (p.19-35), Carroll  Films - "Does the End Justify the Means?" and "Can Rules Define Morality?"
Unit 4 - Week 4 - Ethics: Virtue & Justice  Readings - Beauchamp & Bowie (p.35-49), Solomon, Smart, Wilson, Nielson  Web Reading - UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights  Films - "Is Ethics Based on Virtue?" and "What is Justice?"  Unit 5 - Week 5 - Social Responsibility of Business  Assignment #1 due on Wednesday  Readings - Friedman, Mulligan (optional), Freeman, Bowie, Solomon  Unit 6 - Week 6 - Professional Ethics  Readings - Shaw & Barry, Ladd, "Society," Callahan, Tittle  Unit 7 - Week 7 - Lying, Bluffing, and Bribery  Readings - Carr, Lane & Simpson, Poff, Kelly  Web Reading - Sissela Bok on Lying  Unit 8 - Week 8 - Advertising Ethics  Readings - Arrington, Waide, Tittle, Valasquez, Lutz (optional)  Web Reading - Canadian Code of Advertising Standards  Film - "Advertising and the End of the World"  Unit 9 - Week 9 - Workplace Issues & Employee Rights  Assignment #2 due on Wednesday  Readings - Shaw & Barry, Boatright, Tittle  Film - "Her Brilliant Career"  Unit 10 - Week 10 - Affirmative Action & Sexual Harassment  Readings - Nagel, Pojman, Bravo & Cassedy, Laframboise, Hasnas, Zeitlin  Unit 11 - Week 11 - International Business & the Environment  Readings - De George, Baxter, Des Jardins, Beauchamp & Bowie, Callahan, Shaw & Barry  Film - "Cross-Cultural Understanding"  Unit 12 - Week 12 - Trends: Rationalization, Leaner & Meaner, Woke Capital  Assignment #3 due on Wednesday of Week 13
Discussion Board & Take a Moment Posts due last day of lectures  Reading - Royce  (5) Assessments & Marking Scheme  Midterm Quiz - 15%  Final Quiz - 20%  Discussions & Take a Moments - 15%  Essays & Written Exam - do 2 of 4 - 50%  A. Quizzes (35%)  Midterm Quiz worth 15% and will take place on Wednesday of Week 6 ( February 11 ). A Final Quiz worth 20% will be scheduled during the final exam period (TBD).  B. Discussion Posts and Take a Moments (15%)  This is the participation component of your mark. You earn it in two ways - by addressing the Questions for Discussion on the discussion board, and by doing Take a Moment activities (which don't need to be posted). Finally, I ask that you   copy all your discussions and take a moments into a Word or PDF file and submit them by the Last Day of Lectures (Monday, April 6) . Posts should appear in chronological order and you might indicate on which date each was made. That will help me assess your discussion mark. For more on the Discussion Board and what I'm looking for in your discussion posts, see Unit 1.  Questions for Discussion  You should make   12 substantive posts   (of at least 100 words) on the discussion board during the term. Some discussion questions have two or more parts. You can address them all briefly, or focus on one or two parts in detail. Occasionally, you may respond to another student's post. You can earn 1/2 your discussion grade by making your 12 posts. Another 1/4 of it is based on doing at least   6 Take a Moment activities   (see below). An additional 1/4 is based on the quality of your Discussion Posts.
Try to address the Questions for Discussion for a unit during the week we are covering that unit. One advantage of posting early in the week is that you can be the first to address a question and won't have to worry about the topic being already exhausted by other students. Those posting late should take a new angle or find a question that hasn't already been discussed. (This doesn't apply to the first week; everyone can do the same self-introduction questions.)  Students can discuss the questions for a unit for   one additional week   after the unit is covered (e.g. posts for unit 1 should be made by the last day of week 2). Responses after that will be considered late. I will   deduct up to 0.5   for students who fall way behind on their posts or do them all at the end, but you may go slightly past the one week limit once or twice without penalty. You can earn no more than 2 participation marks for the discussion of a particular unit, no matter how many questions you do.  Take a Moment Activities  You should also do at least 6 Take a Moment activities on your own during the term, and submit them Last Day of Lectures in the same Word file with your Discussion Posts. Responses of 75-150 words are sufficient to show you've thought about and engaged with the questions. There are 22 Take a Moment activities to choose from. You will find them scattered throughout the course notes.  2 in Unit 1  3 in Unit 2  1 in Unit 3  2 in Unit 4  3 in Unit 5  4 in Unit 6  1 in Unit 7  3 in Unit 8  3 in Unit 11  It is wise to keep up with Questions for Discussion and Take a Moment activities as you do each unit, since you will be busier with
assignments and essays towards the end of term. The Discussion Posts and Take a Moments should be submitted as one document, as they will be marked as one assignment.  C. Essays & Written Exam (50%)  Here you have a real choice. There are 3 essays based on different sets of questions with different due dates - Wednesday of Week 5 ( February 4 ), Week 9 ( March 11 ), and Week 13 ( April 8 ). There is also an in-person written exam with essay and short answers questions, to be scheduled during the final exam period (likely same day as the final online quiz). You have three options: Do one essay and the in person written exam (the pattern planned for 2027-28), OR do 2 essays and skip the written exam (the old pattern), OR just do the written exam for 50% and skip the essays (an option I'm trying out). You are permitted to submit up to 3 of the above (3 essays or 2 essays and write the exam) in which case I'll drop the lowest mark.  Essays : Suggested length is 1000-1600 words. Additional research beyond course readings and materials is not required, although it is helpful for some questions. You are expected to reference direct quotations from course notes and readings, and any outside sources that you rely upon. I'm not picky about citation format as long as it's easy for me to locate and check them.  Essay 1   (25%) - due Wednesday of Week 5 (1000-1600 words)  Answer ONE of the following six questions.  1.   Why be Moral?   If someone questions the conventional customs and laws of their culture and religion, what reason do they have to be good? You may draw on ethical theories along with your own personal reasons for being moral. (Unit 2-4)  2.   Which Ethical Theory is best?   Choose between the following 8 options: Cultural Relativism, Egoism, Hobbes' Contract Theory, Act Utilitarianism, Rule Utilitarianism, Kant's
Deontology, Ross's Deontology, and Virtue Ethics. Explain and defend your preferred theory, and argue why it's better than 2 of the most promising alternatives or main rivals listed. Use examples or cases to make your point. (Unit 2-4)  3.   Develop your own version of   Utilitarian theory . Make it as precise and defensible as possible. You will need to specify:  ○   Whose utility is to count? (all humans equally? give more weight to our nearest and dearest? what about non-human animals?)  ○   What value is to be maximized? (pleasure? preferences? pluralist?)  ○   Whether to pursue it directly or indirectly? (act vs. rule?)  Explain why you develop your theory in this way. Then try to defend it against several of the most common objections to utilitarianism. Finally, consider whether your best possible version of the theory is morally adequate. Why or why not? (Unit 3, also 11.5)  4.   Consider the arguments made in Unit 4.2-4.4 course notes and the articles by Wilson and Nielsen, and address the question: " Is Capitalism Just? " Hint: you will need to consider different ideas of what Capitalism and Justice are, and different arguments for each side. (Unit 4)  5.   Analyze " The EpiPen Case " (Essay Resources) in light of material on justice, capitalism, and the social responsibility of business (see 5.3.2). Does it show that drugs pricing should not be left to capitalism, or is the problem better explained in terms of the US system of drug regulation? Do you see EpiPen's price increases as a proper application of Friedmanism, or does it misapply it in a way that is self-defeating?   (Units 4-5)
6.   Develop your own view of the   Social Responsibility of Business   in which you draw on or criticize three of the following: Friedman's Stockholder theory, Freeman & Solomon's Stakeholder theory, Bowie's Enlightened Friedmanism, Carroll's Pyramid of CSR (especially the ethical vs discretionary distinction), and Arendt's critique of Eichmannism. You might bring some cases from the unit into your argument. (Unit 5)   *This question may be done for either Ass.1 or Ass.2*  Essay 2   (25%) - due Wednesday of Week 9 (1000-1600 words)  Answer ONE of the following eight questions.  1.   Analyze " The Antitrust Case " (Course Notes 5.5.5), OR " Malden Mills Case " (U5 Essay Resources), OR " Engineers Duty to Speak Out " (Shaw & Barry) OR " Grieving Nurse vs. Professional Code " (6.3.2 and U6 Essay Resources). Your analysis should consider all ethically relevant aspects of the case and reach a conclusion. It may draw upon themes from the unit and (for the first and third) issues raised in the discussion questions. (Unit 5-6)  2.   Is Journalism still a Profession   in terms of Bayles' criteria (6.1.1) and traditional ideals of journalism ethics (6.3.3-6.3.5)? In developing an argument on this question you should draw on some of the articles in " Decline of Journalism " (Essay Resources). Best to pick a focus - either the issue of objectivity and political partisanship (articles 1-2), or the issue of paywalls, clickbait, and the internet's effect on the business model of newspapers (articles 3-5). (Unit 6)  3.   Analyze the   Laurentian Case   (6.4.4 and Essay Resources). What factors were most responsible
for Laurentian becoming Insolvent? Who was to blame? Or was it a perfect storm of misfortune?  Was filing for creditor protection under the CCRA the best way to handle the crisis? Should the Ontario government have bailed them out or prevented the drastic cuts of April 12? How would you balance the interests of the major stakeholders involved? In building an argument, you may focus on some issues in detail rather than discussing every aspect of the case. (Unit 6)  4.   Discuss the strengths and weaknesses of Albert Carr's position in " Is Business Bluffing Ethical? " You should consider his analogy between business and poker, his conception of bluffing and lying, the merit of his examples, and the similarities between his view and Friedman's stockholder theory. You might also bring in Carson on labour negotiations (course notes), the JC Penney or Saturn cases, or anything else that seems worth discussing. (Unit 7)  5.   Would you agree with the Quakers that charging different people different prices for the same thing is morally wrong? Consider the ethics of Haggling, Surge pricing, Promotional or High-Low pricing, and the cases of Saturn and JC Penney. You may go into detail and further research a sub-topic, or analyze the material presented in 7.2 and defend an overall view. (Unit 7)  6.   Address one of the   Ethical Issues raised by Advertising   and defend your own position with reference to course material. You'll need to find an issue worth writing on - something debatable, about which you can develop your own argument. Arrington's philosophically meaty article is a good source of questions. (Unit 8)  For example, is puffery ethical? - consider theorists who criticize and defend puffery, and argue your own position taking account of counter-arguments.
Or does advertising undermine autonomy or "create desires" in a sinister way? - consider what autonomy is, Galbraith and Hayek's arguments, and defend your own position against counter-arguments.  You can also consider issues more briefly touched upon, like the ethics of advertising to children or teenagers, but in such cases you'd benefit from outside research.  7.   Develop an argument on the ethics of   Product Placement   and/or   Influencer Marketing . Are they no worse (or better) than classic forms of advertising such as TV commercials? Or are they unethical "disguised advertising techniques"? Consider some of the cases discussed and distinctions made in Unit 8.6.  8.   Analyze the " Lego Friends Case " ("Un-PC Lego Making Toys Girls Like," "The Gendered Toy Debate" and "Those Who Push for Toy Neutrality Don't Get Little Girls At All" from Essay Resources). Briefly summarize each author's main point. Which side do you think is strongest, and why? (Unit 8)  Essay 3   (25%) - due Wednesday of Week 13 (1000-1600 words)  Answer ONE of the following nine questions.  1.   Analyze three of the cases in   Employee Free Speech: Four Cases   ("Speaking Out About Malt," "Queen of Sky," "Fired for Blogging at Google," or "Google Memo Case." Compare and contrast the cases and issues at stake. Develop your own position on an employee's right to free speech in criticizing product marketing, blogging about their work life, or expressing their views on diversity initiatives. (Unit 9)  2.   To what extent should we try to ban appearance-based discrimination? Consider the skeptical argument of Robert Barro ("So You Want to Hire the Beautiful. Well, Why Not?") and issues raised in " Beauty Discrimination " ("Should We Try to Legislate Against Appearance-based Discrimination?"
"WLU Study" and "Beauty is Pain" in Essay Resources). Address some of the questions below, and develop your own overall thesis. (Unit 9)  1.   Do you agree with Michigan banning discrimination based on weight and height? Should extreme obesity be included in laws protecting the disabled from discrimination?  2.   Putting aside the racial aspect of their case, should Abercrombie & Fitch be allowed to treat good looks as a BFOQ for the salespeople who "model" their clothes? What about Hooters hiring attractive waitresses? Would banning such preferences   go too far in undermining a business concept for no compelling reason?  3.   Was Ms. Lorenzana treated unjustly by Citibank and should it be grounds for a lawsuit?  4.   What, if anything, should be done about the issue of female-dominated HR departments who favour attractive male applicants but discriminate against attractive female ones?  5.   In what circumstances do beautiful women face discrimination relative to more ordinary looking women? If your would legislate against Abercrombie or Hooters preference for the attractive, would you do so here to protect the pretty?  3.   Is   Affirmative Action   in the strong sense morally justified? Consider especially the Compensatory Justice and Equal Results arguments, the Utility of such policies for society, and whether they really help disadvantaged groups. Relevant sources include Course Notes 10.1-10.4 , articles by Nagel and Pojman, and Essay Resources on Affirmative Action. (Unit 10)  4.   What is the   Gender Wage Gap ? What are its most important and deeper causes? Is it best seen as a matter of discrimination and injustice? Or a product of the free choice of men and women with different interests dividing up work and childcare in their own way? Should campaigns for equality focus on equalizing average income between the
sexes? Or would that be unfair to men and impose an agenda that doesn't serve human well-being? A good paper will develop an argument that attends to material in the Course Notes and addresses some of the above questions. (Unit 10.5-10.6)  5.   Analyze " Case Study: Confronting Harassment " by John Hasnas in terms of the following questions. A good answer will attend to the relevant details of the case.  1.   To what extent is the behaviour and viewpoint of Dominique Francon justifiable? Suppose she files suit against Toohey and you are her attorney. Based on the facts about U.S. sexual harassment law in the article by Bravo and Cassedy, how would you argue her case?  2.   To what extent is the behaviour and viewpoint of Ellsworth Toohey defensible? Suppose you are the attorney for Toohey. How would you defend him? Which side is strongest?  3.   Read " Confronting Harassment 2: Personality Reversal " (Unit 10.10) and address the questions at the end. (Unit 10)  6.   Imagine that you have been asked to examine " Combating Drugs in the Workplace " plus " The Pointlessness of the Workplace Drug Test " and the two articles about the  Suncor Case   ("Oil Sands Drug-testing Battle" and "Alberta Court" from Essay Resources), and develop a substance abuse policy for your workplace. Specify the workplace you are dealing with. Outline and justify your policy. Make sure to consider conflicting arguments in the readings, and balance the need to prevent substance abuse, respect employee privacy and freedom, and have a cost-effective policy. Show how your policy would deal with 3 cases discussed in "Combating Drugs" and how the principles behind it would address the Suncor Case. (Unit 10)  7.   Develop an argument or analyze a case on the topic of  Outsourcing   or   Supply Chain Ethics . Relevant resources include the Nike Case (11.2) and the links in the essay resources section for Unit 11. If you focus on   Outsourcing ,
consider the ethics of moving manufacturing abroad to take advantage of cheap labour or the practice of reducing costs by having jobs performed by outside contractors. In regard to   Supply Chain Ethics , consider to what extent companies are ethically responsible for their suppliers, and whether it makes a difference (a) if they're a large and powerful company and (b) if the suppliers are direct or further down the supply chain. If you choose to focus exclusively on   Nike , you should consider their marketing as well as their outsourcing strategies. (Unit 11)  8.   What is the   Environmental Social Responsibility   of business? Is it best understood in   Friedmanite Light Green  terms of obeying regulations, in   Stakeholder Green   terms of meeting the expectations of customers, employees, and the community, or in   Dark Green   terms which put environmental principles front and centre? You may also consider whether its ethical responsibility is primary  Anthropocentric   or extends beyond human interests in a significant way? Defend your view. (Unit 11)  9.   Explore a topic from   Economics and the Environment  (Unit 11.6). For example, is the free-market solution to the  Tragedy of the Commons   (that everything should be owned) viable, and if not, what would you propose? Or what is   Cost-Benefit Analysis , what are some challenges in applying it to product safety and environmental issues (e.g. the willingness to pay criteria in deciding the best use for a mountain), and is it defensible or should it replaced by another approach? Alternatively, in the   Ford Pinto Case , is the problem that no price can be put on a human life, that Ford put too low a value or life, or that given knowledge of the risks (a fuel tank that can explode on low-speed impact), nobody would choose to buy the car? (Unit 11)  10.   Is business making   Moral Progress   or is talk of CSR more image making than reality? You should pick a couple topics to focus on - Greenwashing (11.7), Leaner & Meaner (12.3), and Woke Capital (12.4) are all relevant, as well as cases like Nike (11.2.1, 12.4.3), Safeway (12.3.1), and General Electric (12.3.2).
11.   Of the   Three Trends   presented in Unit 12, which do you see as the biggest problem and why? OR How might one of the  Three Trends   in Unit 12 be mitigated or countered? (Unit 12)  12.   Your Choice . For Assignment 3, you may also write on a topic of your own choosing. Your paper must deal with some aspect of ethical theory or some issue in business and professional ethics. Could be a topic we have discussed, could be a fresh topic relevant to the course. You should develop and defend a position on a debatable issue, or critically assess the views and arguments of authors on a topic.  You may also do your essay in the form of a case analysis, dealing with a current business or professional ethics issue that is reported in the media. You are expected to research all sides of the case and provide proper documentation of your sources. You will need to describe the case and then analyze it, making appropriate use of concepts and materials presented in the course.  The "Essay Topics" file (Essay Resources) is a prime source if you're looking for topics. It includes links related to Outsourcing and Supply Chain Ethics, Minimum Wage debate, Amazon Ethics, and Google Ethics. You might also get inspiration from other cases found in Essay Resources that I've used for discussion questions (Walmart, Sex and the Office). Or pick your own topic related to ethical dilemmas that arise in a profession, controversial issues in business ethics, or current cases in the news  Final Exam   (25% if you do an essay, 50% if you skip the essays)  This is an in-person, proctored Final Exam scheduled by the Registrar during the exam period for this term. It will consist of Short Answer and Essay questions and it is cumulative, covering material from the entire course.  General Advice on writing Philosophy Essays  1.   I'm looking for knowledge of the relevant course material, understanding and evaluation of the arguments involved,
and some original and coherent thinking. Style is relevant. This involves such things as clarity and organization.  2.   The essay is a defence of your own position regarding a question of ethical significance. To give your position a worthy defence, imagine that your reader is skeptical about your conclusion but sympathetic to well formulated arguments.  3.   Addressing likely counter-arguments is part of making a good case. When arguing for a position, imagine how your opponent might reply and how you might counter their response.  4.   If your thesis and argument is so obvious or vague that no reasonable person would disagree, you might benefit from choosing a more debatable topic or making a more precise and ambitious argument.  5.   Strong argumentation and originality of thought are highly valued in philosophy papers. This could involve subtle and detailed analysis of an issue, and it could involve comparing and connecting different ideas in order to develop your own view.  6.   As a reader, I want you to give me the most for the least - that is, to make lots of points, defend them adequately, back them up with appropriate attention to course material, and to do this without padding or repetition.  7.   Marks will be deducted for poor writing (organization, grammar, spelling, and diction), so proofread carefully. Better to divide your paper into short paragraphs, than have long rambling paragraphs with separate or loosely related ideas.  8.   I dislike papers that clearly misread an author or text, that are self-contradictory, or that say little in a vague way.  9.   All ideas taken from someone else should be referenced in MLA or APA format. Page references should be given for all direct quotations. If you are researching a case for analysis, make sure to reference your factual sources.  (6) How to Succeed
Keeping Up:   Online courses give you the freedom to learn at your own pace. In this course, there are no weekly quizzes or midterm exams forcing you to study the material part way through. However don't abuse this freedom by allowing yourself to fall behind, or you will dig a deep hole for yourself.  A wise student will keep up with the readings in the first half of term, or even get slightly ahead, because the majority of Assignments and the Essay are due towards the end. If you don't Read and Think in the first half, you won't have the time or be prepared to Write and Study later on. It is also good policy to keep up with your Discussion Board Posts, keeping in mind the rule that they should be made within one week of when a unit is covered. Finally, I suggest that you do the 1st assignment, so you can complete and receive feedback on one piece of coursework before the final month.  Studying from the Online Course Notes : This set of detailed lecture notes is your most valuable study resource. They summarize, comment upon, and ask guiding questions regarding the readings and films, they contain interactive activities and a glossary, and they present some meaty content not covered elsewhere.  (7) Course Policies  Submissions Policy:  The two required Assignments, and your collected Take a Moments Activities and Discussion Board Posts, should be submitted via the online Dropbox in My Learning Space as either a Word or PDF file. All submissions to the Dropbox are automatically checked for plagiarism by Turnitin.com. If you are having technical problems, you can also send the paper to me at cbeam@wlu.ca.  Late Policy:  I will accept assignments and essays for one week after the due date. Those late without good reason may be graded less charitably (I will deduct 0.5% maximum). Papers more than one
week late may not be accepted unless you have prior permission or a valid excuse (for example, medical reasons).  Generative AI:  The use of tools like ChatGPT is permissible but not encouraged. If you use them, do so lightly (for brainstorming ideas or polishing writing) rather than relying on them for the creative and analytic part of essay writing. If you use generative AI, you must cite its usage, and failure to do so is a form of academic misconduct.  Communication Policy:  The best way to contact me is at cbeam@wlu.ca. You will normally get a response within a couple of days. You can also send me messages within MyLearningSpace, but response time is likely to be slower (especially in weeks when nothing is due). Sometimes I will use the Important Notices section of the Discussion Board or the mylaurier email listserv to send announcements to the entire class. My phone number is 519-884-1542. It is best to call me only in an emergency or if you need to talk to me about something at greater length than can be efficiently done by email.  (8) University Policies  Examination Deferrals : The Academic Date section of the Calendar clearly states the exam period for each semester. Students are required to reserve this time for their exams. For information that describes the special circumstances for exam deferment, consult the University calendar. [Note that the Midterm and Final Exam Quizzes for PP247 are online and can be written from outside the country.]  Special Needs : Students with disabilities or special needs are advised to contact Laurier's Accessible Learning Centre (www.mylaurier.ca/accessible.htm) for information regarding its services and resources. Students are encouraged to review the Calendar (www.wlu.ca/calendars/undergrad) for information regarding all services available on campus.
Academic Integrity/Misconduct (cheating) : Laurier is committed to a culture of integrity within and beyond the classroom. This culture values trustworthiness (i.e., honesty, integrity, reliability), fairness, caring, respect, responsibility and citizenship. Together, we have a shared responsibility to uphold this culture in our academic and nonacademic behaviour. The University has a defined policy with respect to academic misconduct. You are responsible for familiarizing yourself with this policy and the penalty guidelines, and are cautioned that in addition to failure in a course, a student may be suspended or expelled from the University for academic misconduct and the offence may appear on their transcript. The relevant policy can be found at Laurier's academic integrity website (www.wlu.ca/academicintegrity) along with resources to educate and support you in upholding a culture of integrity. Ignorance of Laurier's academic misconduct policy is not a defense.  Plagiarism : The Dropbox in MyLS is equipped with software that can check for plagiarism. Essays and collected discussions must be submitted through it. Submitting the same work in two different courses is a form of academic misconduct.  (9) Student Support  Virtual Asyncrhonous Learning:  https://students.wlu.ca/academics/virtual-asynchronous-learning/i  ndex.html  This link provides specific information related to taking distance education courses (e.g., how to submit assignments, midterm schedules, forms) as well as links to other university services and supports.  Library Support:   library.wlu.ca  This link provides general library information, research aids and techniques for learners at a distance.  MyLearningSpace Resources:   www.wlu.ca/edtech  This link provides students with helpful hints on navigating their
way through the MLS software including how to use important communications features such as the Bulletin Board and E-mail.  Support Contacts: MyLearningSpace Related Problems: MyLS@wlu.ca  General Computer Questions: ITS Help Desk at WLU ext. 2222 or support@mylaurier.ca  Computer Hardware Support: WLU Bookstore at jkrueger@wlu.ca
